=head1 NAME

Text::LookUpTable - Perl5 module for text based look up table operations

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  $tbl = Text::LookUpTable->load_file('my_table.tbl');
  $tbl = Text::LookUpTable->load($str_tbl);

  print $tbl;
  $str_tbl = "$tbl";

  $tbl->save_file();
  $tbl->save_file('my_table.tbl');

  $tbl->set($x, $y, $val);

  @diff_coords = $tbl->diff($tbl2);
  $diffp = $tbl->diff($tbl2, 1);  # true/false no coordinates

  @x_coords = $tbl->get_x_coords();
  @y_coords = $tbl->get_y_coords();

  @ys = $tbl->get_y_vals($x_offset);
  @xs = $tbl->get_x_vals($y_offset);

  $str_plot = $tbl->as_plot('R');
  print FILE $str_plot;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Text::LookUpTable provides operations for creating, storing, displaying,
plotting, loading, and querying a I<look up table> structure.  The format
of the stored structure is designed to be visually easy to understand
so that it can be easily edited using a text editor.

The authors inteded use of this library is to allow a user to edit a
text file representation of a look up table which can then be loaded
in to an embedded controller such as MegaSquirt [http://www.msextra.com].
Additional code would be needed to convert this generic structure
to whatever application specific format is required.

What is a I<look up table> and how is it different than a I<table>?
A I<look up table> is commonly used in embedded controllers to avoid the
use of costly floating pointing operations by looking up a value based
on the input coordiantes.  A function with two inputs (f(x, y)) which
would use floating point operations can be represented (with some loss
in precsion) as a table.

In contrast a I<table> (or spreadsheet) has any number of columns/rows.
The columns can be of different types.  And a table does not try to represent
any sort of function, it just stores data.

=head1 STRING FORMAT

The format of the look up table when stored to a string or file should
look like the example below.

                        rpm
 
              [1000]   [1500]  [2000]  [2500]
       [100]  14.0     15.5    16.4    17.9
  map  [90]   13.0     14.5    15.3    16.8
       [80]   12.0     13.5    14.2    15.7

The x (across top) and y (left column) coordinates have there values
enclosed in square brackets.  All values must be present.
And the titles can only span one line.  There can be any number of
lines and spaces as long as the values can be discerned.
When saving and restoring a table the original spacing will not be
preserved.

The x values start at offset 0 at the left and increase towards the right.
The y values start at offset 0 at the bottom and increase upward.

=head1 OPERATIONS



=cut

=head2 Text::LookUpTable->load($string);

  Returns: a new table object on success, FALSE on error

Creates a new look up table object by parsing the given string.
See the section I<STRING FORMAT> for details on format it expects.

If you want to load a table from a I<file> see I<load_file>.


=cut

=head2 Text::LookUpTable->load_file($file)

  Returns: new object on success, FALSE on error

Works like I<load> but obtains the text from the $file first.

Stores the name of file so that save_file can be used without
having to specify the file again.


=cut

=head2 $tbl->as_string();

  Returns string on success, FALSE on error.

Convert the object to a string representation.

This operation is used to overload the string operation so
the shorthand form can be used.

  print $tbl;         # print the object as a string

  $to_save = "$tbl";  # get the string format to be saved

The long hand form $tbl->as_string(); should not normally be needed.


=cut

=head2 $tbl->save_file($file);

  Returns TRUE on success, FALSE on error

Optional argument $file, can specify the file to save to.
If ommitted it will save to the last file that was used.
If no last file is stored it will produce an error.


=cut

=head2 $tbl->get_x_coords();

  Returns list of all x coordinates on success OR FALSE on error

Offset 0 starts at the LEFT of the displayed table and increases rightward.


=cut

=head2 $tbl->get_y_coords();

  Returns list of all y coordinates on success OR FALSE on error

Offset 0 starts at the top of the display table and increases downward.


=cut

=head2 $tbl->get_y_vals($x_offset);

  Returns list of values on success OR FALSE on error

Retrive all y values for a given x offset.
This operation uses the offset and does not calculate the position using coordinates.

The 0 offset of the returned list will correspond to the 0 offset of the displayed
table for y which would be at the bottom and increase upward.


=cut

=head2 $tbl->get_x_vals($y_offset);

  Returns list of values on success OR FALSE on error

Retrive all x values for a given y offset.
Note, this operation does not use the coordinates, it simply uses the offset.

The 0 offset of the returned list will correspond to the 0 offset of the displayed
table for x which would be at the left and increase right ward.


=cut

=head2 $tbl->set($x, $y, $val);

  Returns TRUE on success OR FALSE on error

Set the value to $val at the given $x and $y coordinate offset.


=cut

=head2 $tbl->get($x, $y);

  Returns $value on success, FALSE on error

Get the value at the given $x and $y coordinate offset.


=cut

=head2 $tb1->diff($tb2, $break);

  Returns TRUE if different, FALSE otherwise.

  If $break is FALSE it returns a list of positions that are different.

Test whether the values two tables are different.
If $brake is FALSE return a complete list of coordinates that are different.
If $brake is TRUE break out and return as soon it is found that they are
different (slight performance improvement).

This only tests the values for differences it does not test the coordinates
or the titles,


=cut

=head2 $tbl->as_plot('plot type', [type specific args ...] );

  Returns TRUE on success, FALSE on error.

Convert the table to a representation suitable for plotting.
The string may need to be output to a file depending on how the
plotting program is called.

See below for the various plot types.

=head3 R  [www.r-project.org]

  Returns: string on success, FALSE on error

The string can be output to a file and then the file can
be sourced to produce a plot.
It depends upon the rgl library [http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rgl/index.html].

 $tbl->as_plot('R');

 user$ a.out > file.R
 user$ R

 > source('file.R')

 (plot displayed)

=head3 WANTED: more plot types: gnuplot, etc



=cut

=head1 PREREQUISITES

 Module                Version
 ------                -------
 Text::Aligner         0.03
 File::Slurp           9999.13
  
 The version numbers given have been tested and shown to work
 but other versions may work as well.

=head1 REFERENCES

  [1]  MegaSquirt Engine Management System
       http://www.msextra.com/

  [2]  R Project
       http://www.r-project.org/

  [3]  rgl: 3D visualization device system (OpenGL)
       http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rgl/index.html

  [4]  Gnuplot
       http://www.gnuplot.info/

=head1 AUTHOR

Jeremiah Mahler <jmmahler@gmail.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2010, Jeremiah Mahler. All Rights Reserved.
This module is free software.  It may be used, redistributed
and/or modified under the same terms as Perl itself.


=cut

